welcome to the newsour we begin in Gaza
where at least 23 Palestinians have been
killed in overnight Israeli strikes
several areas in southern Gaza are being
targeted at least four people have been
killed in Rafa including two children
scores of the injured have now been
taken to hospital in carun at least 13
Palestinians were killed in Israeli air
strikes that targeted residential areas
around the al- NASA hospital and al-
Amal area and a deal has now been broken
by katar and France to allow a limited
supply of medicine and other Aid into
Gaza now the deal will see Palestinians
who are facing famine likee conditions
receive some humanitarian aid while
medication will be sent for 45 of the
Israeli captives being held in Gaza
we'll get more on that Aid with
Stephanie DEA in a moment who's an
occupied East Jerusalem but first let's
cross over to hanni Mahmud who's in Rafa
in southern Gaza and hany it has to be
said that there's no letup in the daily
bombardment of the Gaza Strip so just
bring us up to up to speed on the
overnight raids and how that's impacted
the search and rescue and Recovery
operation to a certain
extent yes well the ongoing intense
bombardment just uh making it very
difficult for uh a civil defensive crew
on the ground in conducting their work
and search for more people trapped under
the rubbles overnight intense
bombardment here in rafah City again
confirming what people have said in the
past this place is not safe and
increasingly becoming risky for the 1.9
displaced Palestinians been squeezing
this into this small part uh of the Gaza
street but we're looking at two separate
air strikes targeting two residential
homes the vast majority of those
reported killed in the Nar hospital
that's in central Rafa where a a
children and and women we're looking at
people who have been evacuating from one
place to another in Khan Unis where much
of the intense bombardment have taken
place resulting in the death of more
than 13 people in western side of kanun
is an area that has been largely
designated as safeer for internally
displaced Palestinians this is not the
first time has been attacked repeatedly
coming under heavy bombardment since the
beginning uh of the war but more intense
since the beginning of the ground
Invasion maybe the highlight of what
happened is the fact that under heavy
coverage of aerial bombardment Israeli
tanks and armored vehicle pushed deeper
into the vicinity of Naser Hospital uh
technically in an area between uh the
Jordanian field hospital and a couple
hundred meters away from ner hospital
that's the vicinity of the area very
crowded area with uh lots of residential
uh homes but blocking the road that
leading to the main road of the hospital
and on their way those tanks and armed
vehicle destroyed the vast majority of
the infrastructure much of the
residential home on the sides uh of the
main roads leading to the hospital where
snipers took position on the remaining
high-rise building around the uh the
hospital and shooting at every moving
object of course in the Gaza Strip where
uh within the past two days the military
announced that ended its operations but
it continued contrary uh to what the
statement said the bombing continued
yeah my apologies there hny of course
there is a delay uh between me asking
the question and you hearing it as well
so forgive me on that one uh but we do
know obviously there's this announcement
by Qatar and France to deliver Aid
humanitarian Aid into the strip uh at a
time when the UN is saying that every
single person in Gaza is hungry and
we're seeing evidence of that in the
pictures as soon as an aid truck comes
in in is completely surrounded by many
many people uh because the need is so
desperate yes indeed desperate needs for
Food Supplies water and medical supplies
as the situations here in the southern
part where the 1.9 displaced Palestinian
are struggling uh in finding food
supplies and Water Supplies just to keep
their families alive and survive the
horror of the ongoing bombardment but
the situations in the northern part are
far worse where there is literally
famine going on where people haven't had
food for a while now and if reports are
coming from the northern part of Gaza
City suggest that there are people there
is a risk of people dying of this
ongoing famine right now so the deal
right now is is is is very important in
in in in terms of an emergency
intervention in terms of of helping
people at least to counter the famine
going on and particularly the most
vulnerable among of what we're talking
about are the children and women and
those with a chronic disease or
lifethreatening condition let's just
point out that there is no functioning
health facility in Gaza and the northern
part and the fact that there is famine
going on right now just increased the
difficulties and the the uh the uh uh
the the chances of of of surviving uh
the horror of the what's going on in the
nor Pond and again there is winter
there's rain cold weather increases Al
the chances of the spreading of diseases
so humanitarian Aid Food Supplies are
very essential right now to help people
survive this horror mmud for us in raer
thank you let's cross over to Stephanie
Deco joins us now live from occupied
East Jerusalem and Stephanie you know
it's always a relief to hear the aid is
going in the problem and the constant
criticism is the process and the speed
by which that Aid gets in or not as the
case may
be yes I mean we know from the start of
this war there's been a severe delay
lengthy security process by Israel to
clear the trucks to enter the Gaza Strip
so what you see entering uh on and off
these days is really just a drop in the
ocean of what is needed uh in Gaza
remember even before this war Gaza
Palestinians in Gaza were hugely
dependent on Aid let alone under these
um unimaginable circumstances now this
deal so just to remind you also we're
seeing another element of it today which
is a significant lengthy negotiation
that has come uh to fruition which
allows the increase also particularly of
medical uh supplies to the Palestinians
is medicine to the captives 45 hostages
um will be receiving specific
prescription medicine to them this is a
deal brokered by qar they've been
dealing with Hamas in Israel and France
who's been dealing with the intrinsics
of the medicine of which hostage needs
what there are chronical conditions we
understand um and Hamas has had an issue
with this throughout these negotiations
concerned about potential tracking
because you're going to have medications
enter the Gaza Strip and have to go to
specific hostages you also uh have the
families of the hostages demanding proof
demanding proof that these medications
will reach um the captives that they are
intended for but certainly uh this has
been an ongoing negotiation since
October it is the first time since the
collapse of the ceasefire that Israel
and Hamas have managed to uh to get some
form of agreement on something just to
update you of course this government
also very keen to be showing that it's
doing something uh to get the captives
back to improve their conditions uh
because what Hamas is saying is that it
won't negotiate until this war is over
uh and Israel says it's not going to
stop the war so very difficult situation
certainly for the families the hostages
who want their loved ones back as soon
as possible Stephanie deor is there in
occupied East Jerusalem thank you